when I tell you that making perfect
hashbrowns is easy I mean it there is
only one ingredient but there is one
rule and that rule is it takes 30
minutes to make hashbrowns
and I mean it 30 minutes if you don't
have 30 minutes make toast I'm going to
show you how easy it is to make crispy
on the outside moist on the inside
hashbrowns every time and we're going to
start by peeling a potato now I'm going
to peel this is a russet potato or a
baking potato and this is the potato of
choice for hashbrowns but I have made
them with Yukon Gold and red potatoes
whatever sometimes whenever I have on
hand and I've had just as much luck with
that too but these stretchy ones are the
ones that are usually recommended so one
russet potato okay
now that looks pretty good okay there's
my peeled potato and now we're gonna do
is grate the potato and this is the
perfect size right here what this I
don't know what this is called but that
size a hole on the grater is perfect
because if you use a hole too small
you'll get mushy potatoes if it's too
big they won't cook so this is the
perfect size
so you just grate it it takes maybe a
minute to grate one big russet like this
okay so we're getting close to the end
here and of course you have to be
careful I don't mind wasting a little
bit of potato but I try to throw away
the last little bit so that I don't cut
my fingers so there it is it's one
grated potato and this is how much look
at how much you get from one one russet
potato like that that should be enough
just for me you think I'm kidding
I love hashbrowns okay now this is an
important step we're gonna get the
moisture out of this these potato this
potato but and as we're doing that we're
going to preheat the pan because I have
but you get you get your the biggest pan
you have this is my big big huge pan
preheat it to about medium-high and I'm
gonna put in like about a teaspoon of
olive oil okay that's it no need to use
butter heart-healthy olive oil
now this is the fun part and the
important part we're gonna take this the
potatoes and we're gonna get as much
moisture out as possible and it might
take more than one time okay
so I have four ply of paper towels here
and so I just kind of spread them out
like that and I roll them up and you
just squeeze out the moisture you can
see it's already on the cloth like that
and there's quite a bit in here so if
you get this much moisture in the paper
towel we're gonna do it again so I will
put another towel down here I know it's
it's messy but it does take some
commitment it's really important to get
all the moisture out so this potato is
requiring to Rowling's like that so you
just spread it out so it gets touches as
much of the paper you know what I'll do
I'm gonna take even extra paper towels
go like this on top and then roll it and
that should do it
that should do it squeeze it and there's
no more there's very little moisture
coming out to the towel story about my
mess look at this and then I put them in
a bowl just so I can kind of fluff them
up a little bit and gives me a place to
kind of add the salt and pepper
so that's it you just kind of brush it
off the paper okay now and I can pick up
okay so there there it is it's nice and
dry this it's not very wet at all and
all you do is just add a little salt and
pepper to taste it doesn't take much
because you can always add salt later
but don't put too much in so I'll put a
little bit of salt in and a little bit
of pepper and while you're doing that I
could do it with my hand because it's
kind of it keeps it kind of light and
fluffy okay so it's all mixed up and now
the pan should be preheated
and it's a nonstick pan so I just kind
of shake the olive oil around a little
bit to move it around and then that's
what you want to hear they go on the pan
and I do this by hand too and just kind
of make it so it's fairly even
throughout and then I just kind of bring
in the edges so because the edges will
get browner so I just kind of bring them
in a little bit give it a little bit of
a nice shape now I turn it down to there
turn it down to medium low and now 15
minutes before you touch them you turn
them over once and Vic and cook for
another 50 minutes so you have to wait
15 minutes and I mean it I'm not kidding
you go make the bed go make coffee drink
coffee I don't care but 15 minutes you
don't touch them you don't turn them do
nothing okay don't make me come over
there 15 minutes
I love it okay it's been 15 minutes it's
time first you want to check the bottom
which we're gonna do but see how the
edges are nice and brown and I think
depending on you you have to figure out
what your your stove and your pan work
at this is like between medium and
medium-low so and I'm gonna just check
the bottom oh can you see that okay now
this is a big thing to hash buns I'm
going to try and flip it over okay wish
me luck
here I go ready and there look at that
how awesome is that that's exactly what
they should look like they smell good
and if you're nervous about tea when you
flip I when it's this big you may have
to cut it to flip it over but when it's
cooked right and browned it holds it
together so but if you have to you can
just take a spatula and slice it and
flip it over now what I also do is I add
I scoot it over to the side a little bit
and again you want to use the biggest
pan that you have and again a little bit
more olive oil it'll help it really
crisp up and brown just on the edges and
then you'll see that's nice and hot and
then I just kind of run it down like
that turn it around that gets it all
over and there we are
now here's the deal 15 minutes don't
touch it don't turn it don't just leave
it alone I'll be back in 15 ok it's been
30 minutes you still want to check
underneath and make sure they're done
but it's looking pretty good
let's take a peek under there look at
that nice and brown and crisp fantastic
turn off the stove bring it over here
and it slides right off with my nonstick
pant now seriously look it does not get
any better than this look at that crispy
golden hashbrowns here's the thing no
butter heart-healthy olive oil only
three things to remember squeeze out the
moisture preheat the pan and thirty
minutes that's what it takes to make
these beautiful awesome oh my god if
only I had ork but I don't look at this
can you hear that
that's that's that's it right there
perfect hashbrowns
oh you got try it 40 minutes I mean it
I'll come to your house